chore: release 0.34.0 (#378)
Substra/substra-documentation: docs/source/how-to/deploying-substra/upgrade-notes.rst

#. Delete the Postgres StatefulSet and PVC

   This depends on your particular set-up but it should look like this:

   .. code-block:: bash

      kubectl delete -n substra statefulset $RELEASE_NAME-postgresql
      kubectl delete -n substra pvc data-$RELEASE_NAME-postgresql-0

#. Perform the database upgrade

   Note versions ``8.0.0`` and ``23.0.0`` are used: they contain the database upgrade. The apps upgrade are done in ``8.0.1`` and ``23.0.2``.

   You can get values with ``helm get values``

   Orchestrator:

   .. code-block:: bash

      helm upgrade -n $NAMESPACE $RELEASE_NAME https://github.com/Substra/charts/raw/main/orchestrator-8.0.0.tgz --values orc-values.yaml

   Backend:

   .. code-block:: bash

      helm upgrade -n $NAMESPACE $RELEASE_NAME https://github.com/Substra/charts/raw/main/substra-backend-23.0.0.tgz --values backend-values.yaml

#. Delete the applicative ``deployments`` and ``statefulset`` to avoid them polluting the database (``orchestrator-server``, ``backend-server``, ``backend-worker``, ...)

#. Launch a shell from **within the postgres-backup pod** and load the dump:

   .. code-block:: bash

      psql --host=$HOST -U $DB_USER < /dump.sql

> #. Perform final upgrade as normal

Reviewer: I feel like the [important information](https://github.com/Substra/substra-documentation/blob/chore/release-0.34.0/docs/source/how-to/deploying-substra/upgrade-notes.rst?plain=1#L22) displayed before the warning could belong here instead: 
```suggestion
#. Perform final upgrade as normal

#. Repeat on each Susbtra node, including the orchestrator (if standalone)
```

---

Else, it might need a second warning, eg something like:

```rst
  .. warning:: 
  
      It must be repeated on each Substra node and orchestrator.
```

Upgrade notes
*************

.. _ops upgrade notes 0.34:

Substra 0.34.0
--------------

This version upgrades the integrated PostgreSQL databases from versions 14 to 16. This upgrade must be performed manually.

If you :ref:`do not use the integrated databases <ops howto external database>`, then you have nothing to do.

> Otherwise, you must update the data format. There are many ways to do this; here we give you a simple way which is acceptable if you have small amounts of data, you have access to the clusters, and downtime is acceptable. It must be repeated on each Substra node and orchestrator.

Reviewer: I would emphase on the requirements somehow:
```suggestion
Otherwise, you must update the data format. There are many ways to do this; here we give you a simple way which is acceptable if:
  - Have small amounts of data
  - Have access to the clusters
  - Downtime is acceptable
 It must be repeated on each Substra node and orchestrator.
```

> #. Make sure no operations are in progress and cordon the node.

Reviewer: I would emphase this sentence with a warning (not sure about the syntax tho)

```suggestion
  .. warning:: 
    Before going further, make sure no operations are in progress and cordon the node.
```

#. Gather required info:

>    * database credentials (here ``$PG_USER`` and an associated password)
>    * Kubernetes namespace (here ``$NAMESPACE``)
>    * Helm release (hereafter ``$RELEASE_NAME``, can be obtained from ``helm get release -A``)
>    * hostname of the Postgres service (hereafter ``$HOST``, can be obtained from ``kubectl get svc -n $NAMESPACE``)
>    * name of the database in Postgres: by default ``orchestrator`` for the orchestrator, and ``substra`` for the backend (hereafter ``$DB``)

Reviewer: Not sure that is the expected render:

![image](https://github.com/Substra/substra-documentation/assets/135698225/549f2499-970e-44f8-879d-42356753fcd6)

---

```suggestion
   - database credentials (here ``$PG_USER`` and an associated password)
   - Kubernetes namespace (here ``$NAMESPACE``)
   - Helm release (hereafter ``$RELEASE_NAME``, can be obtained from ``helm get release -A``)
   - hostname of the Postgres service (hereafter ``$HOST``, can be obtained from ``kubectl get svc -n $NAMESPACE``)
   - name of the database in Postgres: by default ``orchestrator`` for the orchestrator, and ``substra`` for the backend (hereafter ``$DB``)
```

Author: Same thing in rst no ?

Author: good catch. I think its a blanck line missing

> #. Deploy a psql client (we will call ``postgres-backup``) in the namespace

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Deploy a psql client (we will call it ``postgres-backup``) in the namespace
```

   .. code-block:: bash

      kubectl apply -f -n $NAMESPACE - << 'EOF'
      apiVersion: v1
      kind: Pod
      metadata:
        name: postgres-backup
      spec:
        containers:
          - name: postgres
            image: postgres
            command: ["sleep", "infinity"]
      EOF

> #. Get a shell **onto the postgres-backup pod**, dump the DB:

Reviewer: Not sure I understand the sentence as is. Here's a suggestion

```suggestion
#. Launch a shell from **within the postgres-backup pod** and dump the DB:
```

   .. code-block:: bash

      pg_dump $DB --host=$HOST -U $PG_USER -f /dump.sql --clean --create

#. (OPTIONAL) Retrieve the dump:

   .. code-block:: bash

      kubectl --retries 10 cp $NAMESPACE/postgres-backup:/dump.sql dump.sql
      sha1sum dump.sql # check it matches with the source (use `shasum` on Mac OS)

#. Delete the Postgres StatefulSet and PVC

   This depends on your particular set-up but it should look like this:

   .. code-block:: bash

      kubectl delete -n substra statefulset $RELEASE_NAME-postgresql
      kubectl delete -n substra pvc data-$RELEASE_NAME-postgresql-0

#. Perform the database upgrade

>    Note versions ``8.0.0`` and ``23.0.0`` are used: they contain the database upgrade but not the app upgrade.

Reviewer: I'm afraid I do not understand the sentence here.

Author: apps upgrade are in 8.0.1 and 23.0.2

Reviewer: Could we rephrase it to make it a bit clearer?

   You can get values with ``helm get values``

>    orchestrator:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Orchestrator:
```

   .. code-block:: bash

      helm upgrade -n $NAMESPACE $RELEASE_NAME https://github.com/Substra/charts/raw/main/orchestrator-8.0.0.tgz --values orc-values.yaml

>    backend:
>    .. code-block:: bash

Reviewer: Rendering issue:

![image](https://github.com/Substra/substra-documentation/assets/135698225/bcd60ba3-1234-4652-a4dc-317b512a48be)

---

```suggestion
   - Backend:
   
   .. code-block:: bash
```

      helm upgrade -n $NAMESPACE $RELEASE_NAME https://github.com/Substra/charts/raw/main/substra-backend-23.0.0.tgz --values backend-values.yaml

>    Then delete the applicative Deployments and StatefulSets to avoid them polluting the database (``orchestrator-server``, ``backend-server``, ``backend-worker``, etc)

Reviewer: Feels like this could be a `#.` itself. Maybe add some commands? 

```suggestion
#.  Delete the applicative ``deployment`` and ``statefulset`` to avoid them polluting the database (``orchestrator-server``, ``backend-server``, ``backend-worker``, ...)
```

> #. Get a shell **onto the postgres-backup pod**, load the dump:

Reviewer: Same remark as before
